# Projects in File

## Natural Selection Graphical Simulation
A graphical simulation of natural selection featuring herbivore, omnivore and carnivore animals.
For each animal type, the movement priority, pregnancy time, number of children, how much extra food the pregnancy uses up and the hiding quotient(how good the animal is at hiding agains adversaries) might be specified.
Frame rates vary based on number of entities on the screen.
Simulation details can be changed by using the global variables at the end of script and optinally new animals can be created by creating a new animal class with dna's values set to the range in which the values can be randomized and specifying new image gifs.

## Project Euler Problem Solutions

### 51
By replacing the 1st digit of the 2-digit number *3, it turns out that six of the nine possible values: 13, 23, 43, 53, 73, and 83, are all prime.

By replacing the 3rd and 4th digits of 56**3 with the same digit, this 5-digit number is the first example having seven primes among the ten generated numbers, yielding the family: 56003, 56113, 56333, 56443, 56663, 56773, and 56993. Consequently 56003, being the first member of this family, is the smallest prime with this property.

Find the smallest prime which, by replacing part of the number (not necessarily adjacent digits) with the same digit, is part of an eight prime value family.

### 61
Triangle, square, pentagonal, hexagonal, heptagonal, and octagonal numbers are all figurate (polygonal) numbers and are generated by the following formulae:

Triangle	 	P3,n=n(n+1)/2	 	1, 3, 6, 10, 15, ...
Square	 		P4,n=n2	 		1, 4, 9, 16, 25, ...
Pentagonal	 	P5,n=n(3n−1)/2	 	1, 5, 12, 22, 35, ...
Hexagonal	 	P6,n=n(2n−1)	 	1, 6, 15, 28, 45, ...
Heptagonal	 	P7,n=n(5n−3)/2	 	1, 7, 18, 34, 55, ...
Octagonal	 	P8,n=n(3n−2)	 	1, 8, 21, 40, 65, ...
The ordered set of three 4-digit numbers: 8128, 2882, 8281, has three interesting properties.

The set is cyclic, in that the last two digits of each number is the first two digits of the next number (including the last number with the first).
Each polygonal type: triangle (P3,127=8128), square (P4,91=8281), and pentagonal (P5,44=2882), is represented by a different number in the set.
This is the only set of 4-digit numbers with this property.
Find the sum of the only ordered set of six cyclic 4-digit numbers for which each polygonal type: triangle, square, pentagonal, hexagonal, heptagonal, and octagonal, is represented by a different number in the set.

### 62
The cube, 41063625 (345^3), can be permuted to produce two other cubes: 56623104 (384^3) and 66430125 (405^3). In fact, 41063625 is the smallest cube which has exactly three permutations of its digits which are also cube.

Find the smallest cube for which exactly five permutations of its digits are cube.

### 70
Euler's Totient function, φ(n) [sometimes called the phi function], is used to determine the number of positive numbers less than or equal to n which are relatively prime to n. For example, as 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, and 8, are all less than nine and relatively prime to nine, φ(9)=6.
The number 1 is considered to be relatively prime to every positive number, so φ(1)=1.

Interestingly, φ(87109)=79180, and it can be seen that 87109 is a permutation of 79180.

Find the value of n, 1 < n < 107, for which φ(n) is a permutation of n and the ratio n/φ(n) produces a minimum.

### 72
Consider the fraction, n/d, where n and d are positive integers. If n<d and HCF(n,d)=1, it is called a reduced proper fraction.

If we list the set of reduced proper fractions for d ≤ 8 in ascending order of size, we get:

1/8, 1/7, 1/6, 1/5, 1/4, 2/7, 1/3, 3/8, 2/5, 3/7, 1/2, 4/7, 3/5, 5/8, 2/3, 5/7, 3/4, 4/5, 5/6, 6/7, 7/8

It can be seen that there are 21 elements in this set.

How many elements would be contained in the set of reduced proper fractions for d ≤ 1,000,000?

### 74
The number 145 is well known for the property that the sum of the factorial of its digits is equal to 145:

1! + 4! + 5! = 1 + 24 + 120 = 145

Perhaps less well known is 169, in that it produces the longest chain of numbers that link back to 169; it turns out that there are only three such loops that exist:

169 → 363601 → 1454 → 169
871 → 45361 → 871
872 → 45362 → 872

It is not difficult to prove that EVERY starting number will eventually get stuck in a loop. For example,

69 → 363600 → 1454 → 169 → 363601 (→ 1454)
78 → 45360 → 871 → 45361 (→ 871)
540 → 145 (→ 145)

Starting with 69 produces a chain of five non-repeating terms, but the longest non-repeating chain with a starting number below one million is sixty terms.

How many chains, with a starting number below one million, contain exactly sixty non-repeating terms?

## BlackJack
A simple implementation of a blackjack game featuring up to 9 players, one of them human, the others hardcoded logic based AIs.

## FractralPlant L-system

Draw a fractral plant based on the L-system generation method.

## NaturalSelectionWithAltruismStatisticalSimulation
Simulate fluctuations in populations of creatures with changable altruism chances
(which decides if the creature will want to share or fight for food) and other
settings.

## SierpinskiTriangleRecursiveTurtle
Draw a Sierpinski Triangle recursively.
